Hey.
Any sign?
I walked everywhere, rechecked
every clearing I could find.
Nothing.
You want me to grab
some shut-eye
while you take another shift?
No.
If Malachi was gonna show up,
we'd have seen something by now,
especially if he was planning
an ambush.
Maybe Malachi had no intention
of ambushing anyone
or giving up that evidence
he had on Nighthorse.
[sighs]
Maybe he was trying to distract
us so he could skip town.
Or someone got wind of what he
was planning and stopped him.
[rattling]
[mumbling indistinctly]
[door creaks]
-That key does not work.
-Why not?
Because I changed the locks.
Oh, yeah?
What's Malachi gonna have
to say about that?
l neither know nor care
because, last night...
...Malachi signed the bar
back over to me.
Why?
That is not your concern.
In fact, nothing
that happens in this bar
is your concern anymore.
You are fired.
[shutter clicks, camera whirs]
I also reserve the right
not to serve you.
[telephone ringing]
It is a beautiful day at the
Red Pony and continual soiree.
This is Henry.
[Vic] It doesn't look like
Malachi's home.
So if Malachi
did leave town,
he didn't take anything
with him.
Not even his car.
Let's run with your theory
that somebody got to him
before he could give you
the evidence.
What exactly
was he gonna give you?
Proof that Nighthorse
struck a deal with the Irish Mob
to run heroin and prostitutes
through the casino,
which makes Nighthorse
the most likely suspect
in Malachi's disappearance.
Why don't you call the casino,
see if Malachi is there?
l'll radio Ferg,
have him put a track
on Malachi's phone
and bank records.
[cellphone rings]
[cellphone beeps]
Who's that?
Nobody.
[Travis]
Hey, Vic.
It's, uh, me, your, uh,
favorite future deputy.
[chuckles]
l-lt's Travis.
Um, so...uh, you're not home,
uh, so you must be busy.
But, uh, I was cleaning out
the Murphy family garage
and found some of my old,
uh, trailer stuff.
So, um, I'm gonna leave it
up underneath your rig,
and you can thank you me later
if so inclined.
[chuckles]
-Yeah. Why would you say that?
-[cellphone beeps]
Hello, Mama.
Okay. Thanks.
The casino said
they're not expecting Malachi
to come in to work
for another couple of hours.
Ferg,
any sign of Malachi?
No activity on his bank
or credit card account
-in the last 24 hours.
-What about his phone?
The last call Malachi made
was at 3:18 yesterday afternoon.
That's right after I talked
to him.
Interesting timing.
Ferg, I need you to see
if Dennis Wabash
has checked out
of the Peaksman Motel.
lf Malachi's missing,
we need to eliminate
any possible suspects.
-On it.
-Hey.
-You gonna go talk
to Nighthorse?
-Not yet.
I need to see what we can
find out before I confront him.
First I'm gonna head over
to the Red Pony,
see if there's been
any sign of Malachi there.
Okay.
-Vic.
-Yeah?
You're picking up
Walter's bad habits.
You don't answer
your phone anymore?
Sorry. Uh, we were
out of cell range.
Well, the assistant
district attorney
has been trying
to get ahold of you.
-ADA Holder? Why?
-She's gonna need you
to testify at
Chance Gilbert's trial
soonerthan
originally planned.
The trial's moving a lot
faster than expected.
Okay. When does she
need me to testify?
-Today.
-Today?
They said I had two weeks.
Yeah. Well, more like
two hours, sweetie.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Uh, no, it's fine.
Um, I guess I need to
go get myself ready.
-Vic.
-Yeah?
Before you go,
could I see you for a minute?
Sure.
Um...
I've been so distracted lately,
I haven't taken time
to talk with you
about the Chance Gilbert trial.
Well, someone has
been trying to kill you.
Anyway, it's not
exactly something
I've been wanting to
talk about.
Would it help if I came
to the courthouse with you?
Why?
Do you think
you're gonna find Malachi
-hiding in the men's room?
-Vic, I'm serious.
I know what
you went through.
You might think
you're fine,
but when you see his face,
it'll all come flooding back.
I appreciate
the offer. I do.
But you have to go find Malachi,
and I will be fine.
[engine shuts off]
[door opens, closes]
Travis, what are
you doing here?
Just thought I'd sit here
and time how long it takes
for you to tell me.
So far, about 20 seconds.
Tell you what?
Thank you for the
motor-home supplies?
I-I got your voicemail.
Thank you.
Forty seconds.
Travis, I give up.
What do you want?
I want to know
when you were gonna tell me
that we're having a kid.
Get inside.
Okay.
Were you going through
my trash?
No, l was throwing away my trash
and I saw these.
You've been sitting
out there,
-holding on to those
until I got home?
-Yeah.
You do realize I
peed on them, right?
O-Of course I
realize that, okay?
Look, that--
that's not the point, okay?
Okay, Travis,
I got to change for court.
So as much
as I would love to sit here
and have a little
heart-to-heart, I can't.
You know what, Vic?
At some point, we got to deal
with the elephant in the womb.
Okay. One, never
say that again.
And two, isn't it
a bit presumptuous
to think
that you're the father?
Vic, I know my
birds and bees,
and, uh, I don't think
I'm presuming that much.
[both laughing]
Okay. You're not
gonna regret this.
[grunts]
I got it.
Okay.
[grunts]
Shh!
Be quiet.
My mom's a light sleeper.
[laughs]
I'm comin'!
Travis, we made a deal.
That was a one-time thing.
We promised
we'd never talk about it again.
Well, obviously,
the situation has changed.
And, besides,
I mean, we had fun.
Fun has nothing
to do with this.
Really? I must be remembering
a different rodeo, then.
[laughing]
Here we go. [laughs]
Moo. Moo.
[both laugh]
Moo!
[laughs]
-Whoo!
-I did it!
Idid it!
Idid it.
[screams, laughs]
[sighs]
So, what are we gonna do?
Nothing, Travis.
I'm not really ready
to talk about this.
I'm -- I'm just starting
to wrap my own head around it,
and...l don't even know
how I feel, all right?
And I really got to get
to court, so...
[sighs]
Okay.
You look great,
by the way.
You can hardly tell that you're
carrying the extra weight.
I get it.
Don't-- Don't say that again
either, right?
Here you go.
Henry, I'm looking for Malachi.
Is he here?
No.
And he will not be.
He have a day off?
He has more than that.
You know how I told you
Nighthorse was going to help me
get my bar back?
Well, it happened.
How exactly did you
and Nighthorse make it happen?
I found ledgers proving
that Malachi
was using the Red Pony
to launder mob money.
I showed them to Jacob, and he
fired Malachi from the casino.
How did you get Malachi
to give you your bar back?
He signed the
deed over to me
in exchange for not getting
turned in to the authorities.
You do realize that I am
the authorities.
I need to see
those ledgers.
I gave them to Nighthorse.
You had evidence that Jacob
Nighthorse's head of security
was laundering mob money
in my county,
and you gave that evidence
to Nighthorse instead of me?
Yes, I did, after I gave you
the name of Shane Muldoon.
Well, you just helped
a criminal go free.
And you have never
done the same?
Did you hand over
Shane Muldoon's name to the FBI?
I was supposed to meet
with Malachi last night.
He was gonna give me
concrete proof
that Nighthorse
was actually the one
who was running
money laundering
with his old friend
Shane Muldoon.
But Malachi never showed up.
Now I know why.
Any idea
where I might find him?
No.
I went by his house.
He wasn't there, so should I be
looking for a body?
Are you suggesting
that I murdered Malachi
to get my bar back?
I'm suggesting
that your new business partner
has an agenda
that goes way beyond
your ownership of the Red Pony.
Like silencing the one person
that can connect him
to organized crime --
Malachi.
When Nighthorse and I left
Malachi, he was very much alive.
Then you came here.
Where did Nighthorse go?
-I do not know.
-Right.
Ever occur to you
that he might have doubled back
to finish off Malachi,
knowing you would provide
him with an alibi?
Has it occurred to you
that you sound like someone
with a tinfoil hat?
You have become completely
paranoid when it comes to Jacob.
Do you really think that Malachi
is some innocent victim?
We both know what
he's capable of doing.
We put him in jail
in the first place.
You're right, Henry.
You and I used to be
on the same side.
But that was
back before Nighthorse
turned both you and my
daughter against me.
I'm sorry,
but that's not what I do.
If you need legal help,
though, I'll be here.
I don't need legal help.
-I need help help.
-I realize that,
but I-I can't
just shoot people.
-People are saying you can.
-I know.
I'm sorry for
the misunderstanding.
[Jacob] I'd say eventually,
we'll talk--
[sighs] Jacob.
-Cady.
-Hey.
-You should have called.
-Sorry.
Can you give us two minutes?
I'll be fast, Homer, I promise.
-Hey.
-Hi.
-Did you need something?
Well, I need a new head
of security.
What happened to Malachi?
[sighs]
I had to let him go.
So you want me to just grab
my rifle and, uh, take over?
[chuckles] I have no doubt
that you could, but no.
I'm thinking
I may need to hire somebody
from outside the community.
-Seems reasonable.
-Yeah.
Unfortunately, plenty
of people in the tribe
are not gonna find it
so reasonable.
You, however,
seem to be enjoying
a fair amount of
good will right now
as well as a
growing clientele.
I thought maybe you could hire
more Cheyenne staff
to help you here,
kind of balance out
the loss ofjobs at the casino.
I'll increase your
budget accordingly.
Wow.
Yeah, that --
that would be great.
-I could really use the help.
-ExceHent
What do you the best way is
for me to get out
that I'm looking for
applicants?
Well...
I've, uh,
I've taken care of that.
These people don't...
They don't really have
relevant experience.
Yeah. That's a hard thing
to come by on the res.
So how did you choose
these people?
Well, they're capable,
and they all have close
relatives on the tribal council.
Oh.
Yeah.
So...
It's too bad.
I wish politics didn't have to
muddy the waters here,
but, uh...
sometimes to achieve
something good...
...you have to manipulate
perception a bit.
I'll be in touch.
Okay.
[brakes squeak]
[horn honks]
[turn signal clicking]
I'm so sorry
about the late notice.
This trial has been, uh,
a bit unusual.
How do you feel?
Are you ready?
Yeah, I guess.
Is there anything I should know
about this defense lawyer
before he starts grilling me
on the stand?
Oh, my God.
I thought they told you.
Told me what?
That Chance Gilbert
is representing himself.
He is?
Yeah, he is.
Apparently, he's
done this before.
Did he win?
Yes, he did.
But don't worry.
I promise you I have
a rock-solid case.
State versus Gilbert.
-How are you feeling?
-Sick to my stomach.
[indistinct conversations]
[brakes squeak]
[engine shuts off]
l was beginning to think
you were dead.
[Walt]
Oh, hey, Dave.
Sorry. I, uh,
realize I owe you a call.
-What did you want to discuss?
-Oh, you know, sports.
Politics. Your pending
wrongful-death lawsuit.
Well, it's not really pending.
I told you -- I'm settling.
Yeah, and I've been trying to
reach you to tell you
that Barlow's estate refused
to settle for any amount.
-Tucker Baggett is
taking you to trial.
-What?
So we need to sit down
and discuss strategy.
-You got time now?
-Uh, no.
Actually, one of my, uh,
one of my deputies
is taking the stand
in the Chance Gilbert trial.
I'm here for moral support.
Which deputy?
-Deputy Moretti.
-Uh-huh.
Uh, no.
-You're not going in there.
-I have to.
You have to stay as far away
from that case as possible.
First of all, Chance Gilbert is
one more person
accusing your department
of corruption and harassment.
Barlow's entire case
is predicated
on you repeatedly stepping
outside the acceptable norms
and bounds of a
law enforcement officer.
So until the trial is over,
no public displays
of moral support
for the deputy you were seen
kissing in the hospital...
passionately.
I'd just be sitting
in the back of the gallery.
Right, with the reporters.
No, no.
Terrific.
Make sure they spell
your name right.
[chuckles]
Look, Walt,
the best thing you can do
to help your deputy and yourself
is to get back in your
Bronco and drive away.
[static]
[Ferg]
Sheriff, are you there?
Yep.
Dennis Wabash checked out of
the Peaksman Motel two days ago,
well before the last time
you saw Malachi,
so Dennis isn't feeling
like a suspect.
Since Vic had to take off,
I followed up
with the casino again.
Malachi still hasn't shown
up for his shift.
-Anything else?
-Yeah.
The phone company was able
to ping Malachi's cellphone.
They gave me a location,
and for the last hour
and a half, it hasn't moved.
[cheers and applause]
[Woman] Go!
Slow day at the office?
Just helping to raise
a little money for a new school.
Our jobs aren't supposed to be
all doom and gloom, you know?
I find it easier
to do the hard stuff
when I can remember
why I'm doing it.
You should try it.
Well, I'd like to.
The doom and gloom keeps
demanding all my attention.
What do you want?
I need to report
a missing person.
Who?
Your former boss.
Malachi is missing?
That's the first
I've heard of it.
I was supposed to meet
Malachi last night.
He said he was gonna give me
some incriminating evidence
that Nighthorse is tied to
the mob, but he never showed up.
Evidence against Nighthorse.
Now I know why you're so
anxious to find Malachi.
Did you try the casino?
Well, he didn't show up for work
there or the Red Pony.
He's not home, either,
but his car is,
so I don't think
he's taken off.
So here you are.
Demanding what, exactly?
[paper rustling]
We traced the Malachi's
cellphone to here.
You recognize the location?
[Holder] Kidnapping, assault,
battery, torture.
It's a harrowing ordeal that
Deputy Moretti went through.
How has your recovery been?
Physically, I'm lucky.
I'm not suffering from
any lingering effects
of my grade-2 concussion.
What about emotionally
and psychologically?
Emotionally has been
a bit more difficult.
I'm sure it has been.
I understand.
Well, we wish you the best.
Thank you.
No further questions,
Your Honor.
Your witness, Mr. Gilbert.
Thank you, Your Honor.
[thud echoing]
Ms. Moretti... first of
all, how have you been?
Ms. Moretti, are you familiar
with the Wyoming statute
number 6-2-201?
-Yeah, I am.
-Can you educate us?
It's the law that says
you can't kidnap someone.
That's right.
It's punishable
with a sentence
-of 20 years to life.
-Objection, Your Honor.
This is not the
sentencing phase, is it?
Sustained.
Now, Ms. Moretti,
do you know what the
Fourth Amendment says?
I do.
It says that
"the right of the people
to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects,
against unreasonable
searches and seizures,
shall not be violated."
That is correct.
Which law supersedes
the other?
I know that you held me
against my will.
The federal law.
You see, your state
kidnapping statutes
do not give you the right
to violate my rights
under the U.S. Constitution.
-I didn't violate your rights.
-Did you come to my door
and fail to announce
yourself as a deputy?
l was off duty.
Can I get a "yes" or "no"?
No.
I did not identify myself
as a deputy.
Oh.
Did you enter and search
my house, even my root cellar?
Did I search
your root cellar?
[gasps]
You threw me down there
and locked me up.
In defense of my civil liberties
and those of my family.
Ms. Moretti...
Victoria, Victoria.
Such a pretty name.
Isn't it true that you came to
my house under false pretenses,
because your department had
previously failed to convict me
on some trumped-up charges?
And you --
Oh, yes, you were willing
to manufacture a just cause
to search my house.
Yeah.
No.
-No?
-No, it's not true.
When I went to your door,
I had no idea who you were
or your crazy wife
or sister-in-law --
whatever hell she is.
I didn't know about your
made-up sovereign nation
of Gilbertsville or the fact
that your justice system
is based on beating people
with baseball bats.
And I also didn't know...
[spectators murmuring]
...that you kept a dead body
in the damn freezer.
[indistinct shouting]
[Judge]
Order!
I told you to shut
your mouth!
[shouting continues]
[Judge]
Order! Order!
Bailiff!
Order in the court!
[gavel banging]
[Walt] When was the last time
you were out here?
[Mathias]
This is sacred ground.
I haven't stepped
foot out here
since David Ridges shot
your deputy.
My deputy was here
investigating
where Nighthorse helped
David Ridges fake his death.
Don't you think
it's a little coincidental
that the phone company pinged
Malachi's phone
to the same spot?
Makes me wonder if Nighthorse
made another sacrifice.
Come on.
I don't see any phone, no body,
no scavenger birds --
nothing but land and sky.
Can I borrow your phone?
Who are you calling?
Not sure.
Maybe the spirits.
[cellphone ringing]
[ringing continues]
[cellphone beeps]
So I guess cockroaches bleed
after all.
[shutter clicking]
You really think
Jacob Nighthorse did something
to his own head
of security?
Yeah.
I'm starting to believe
he had some help.
Any further outbursts,
and I will clear this courtroom.
Are we clear?
Now...Mr. Gilbert, proceed.
Ms. Moretti, why did
your ex-husband leave you?
Why my ex-husband left
is none of your business.
Wrong.
It is my business.
You see,
freedom is my business.
And your relationship
to your ex-husband is relevant,
which this court
will understand
once you've answered
my question.
Now, why did you and Sean
get divorced?
Well, getting kidnapped
and tortured
by you and your shitheel goons
didn't help our relationship.
That's not what he said.
Do you know what he said?
He said the two of
you broke up
because of your
romantic obsession
with the man who's supposed to
be your boss, Walt Longmire.
Yes.
And your ex spoke about this
in his videotaped testimony
that we all reviewed last week.
He wouldn't have said that.
He didn't deny it.
Do you?
I have never had
an inappropriate
romantic relationship
with Sheriff Longmire.
A strong, emphatic
denial, then.
Yeah.
And you wouldn't
change that just a bit
if I told you that I'm privy
to transcripts of a deposition
you gave to a Tucker Baggett
just recently?
Ooh.
Got very quiet in here
all of a sudden.
[laughter]
So let me try this
a different way, then.
Ms. Moretti,
have you ever taken Walt
Longmire's face in your hands
and kissed him on his lips
with passion?
-Objection!
-Yes, you should object!
We should all object to a
sheriff's department that is run
like it's Walt Longmire's
own personal justice system
as well as his own harem.
Objection, Your Honor.
He's making
defamatory statements
about witnesses
who aren't even present.
Sustained.
Mr. Gilbert, I am no
longer entertained.
Next non-question brings this
cross-examination to a close.
I'm sorry, Your Honor.
All right, Deputy Moretti,
Sheriff Longmire
was willing to put himself
in a bullet's path
to protect you.
Now, if he asked you, would you
risk your life for him?
Yeah.
Because that's part
of the job.
Would you also,
out of your feverish devotion
for the great Walt Longmire,
have entered my home
under false pretenses
just so he could
illegally search my property
and fabricate charges
against me?
No.
Not even if he offered
to kiss you?
Objection!
Sustained.
Mr. Gilbert,
I have given you
more than enough leeway.
-We are done here.
-Walt Longmire killed my brother!
And he's manipulated
this naive individual...
Mr. Gilbert, that is enough!
...in his pursuit
of a vendetta against me.
-Ms. Moretti, you are excused.
-A vendetta against me.
[echoing]
Run back to your master!
Find out what law
he wants you to break next.
[indistinct conversations]
What did you do?
Excuse me?
Or should I say
what did Hector do?
Hmm?
Perhaps we should continue
this discussion in my office.
What are you talking about?
Malachi's gone missing,
and I just got back from the res
with the sheriff.
Would you like to know
what we found out there?
Malachi's phone
and his blood
and the words "Hector Lives"
spelled out with stones.
I guess you just can't help
signing your name to
your work, can you?
Hector did not sign anything.
Hector did not do anything.
So you were never
out at that cliff?
l was.
With Nighthorse.
We took Malachi out there
to banish him for
betraying his tribe,
for bringing the mob and heroin
and despair to our people,
for killing Mingan!
Nighthorse cut him,
and I got him to sign
the Red Pony back over to me.
But when we left him,
Malachi was alive.
So who wrote out
"Hector Lives"?
I do not know.
Who knew you were
taking Malachi out there?
Just Jacob.
What is it?
Walt said he suspected that
Nighthorse put on a show for me,
then went back
to kill Malachi.
[sighs]
[groans]
Maybe he did.
Maybe he wrote out
"Hector Lives."
Hector would be a handy
fall guy for this.
Whatever happened, we need to
find Malachi, dead or alive,
before Walt tries to convict
Hector of murder again.
ï¬hud]
Are you following me?
Don't be paranoid, Deputy.
Don't threaten me,
you whacked-out bitch.
You seem nervous, Victoria.
Don't know what to do without
your uniform and your gun?
I know exactly what to do.
You want to see
for yourself,
or do you want to do
the smart thing and walk away?
He's going to win.
And when he gets out,
he's gonna remember your lies.
[machines beeping, chiming]
[indistinct conversations]
-Jacob.
-Hey.
How is Eamonn recovering
from his injury?
He should be fine,
especially if I can find the
person who shot him
and shot at us.
You mind if I sit?
Of course.
So, uh, Malachi come
in to work today?
You think Malachi was the one
in the woods shooting at us?
-I do.
-Well, so do I.
Which is why he won't
be coming to work today.
lfired him.
How'd you figure out
it was Malachi?
I found some discrepancies
in his books
that suggested he'd made
his own side deal with the mob.
I imagine my
ending that arrangement
hurt both his finances
and his reputation.
And Malachi doesn't handle
those kind of setbacks
as calmly as I do.
-Do you know where he is?
-I do not.
Why don't you give me
that bookkeeping evidence?
I'll track down Malachi and
make sure he's put behind bars.
Mm, yeah.
Well, I can't do that.
Why not?
Because of our history.
You and I both know what you'll
do with those books, Walt.
You'll use them
against me.
No matter what your
intentions are now,
eventually,
you'll convince yourself
that I condoned all
of Malachi's illegal activities.
You really can't help
yourself at this point.
You're determined to see me
as a criminal.
I wonder why.
Boom.
[chuckles]
I can't win with you, man.
Cannot win.
So I think I'll take my chances
with Malachi instead.
-The man who shot at you.
-Yeah.
I don't think he'll be trying
anything more.
Is that because
you murdered him?
Wow.
[sighs]
I mean, that -- that was
even faster than I expected.
So I'm a murderer now?
Yeah.
You do realize I'm being asked
to testify at your civil trial.
[machines beeping, chiming]
Is that a threat?
It's advice.
It's damn good advice.
Unbe-freaking-Iievable.
You -- You can't even prove
the man is dead.
Have you found his body?
Not yet, but I will.
So you didn't come here
because you thought Malachi
was behind the
shooting, did you?
No, no.
Of course not.
You think I was behind it.
You think I made the deal
with the mob,
shot at myself
to throw you off the track,
and now you think
I killed Malachi
because that ungrateful bastard
was gonna give me up, yeah?
No.
I don't think you actually did
any of those things.
I think, as usual,
you found someone else
to do the dirty work for you.
I think you had Malachi
make those deals with the mob.
I think you hired someone
to shoot at you in my presence
and miss.
And I think you had
somebody else kill Malachi
so you could keep his blood
off your hands.
You know, I haven't seen you
this sure of yourself
since you were convinced
that I had both Branch
and your wife killed.
It's almost entertaining.
It's like I can't sleep
at night anymore,
wondering, what wild fiction
is Walt gonna come up with next?
I think this is stranger
than fiction.
I found Malachi's cellphone and
blood out on the reservation,
right near where you staged
David Ridges' funeral pyre.
I also found the words
"Hector Lives" nearby.
[sighs]
So there it is.
-Now you think I'm Hector.
-No.
I think you've recruited him
to do the things Ridges
used to do for you.
I don't suppose you would
tell me who Hector is.
Ifl knew,
I wouldn't tell you.
If I told you,
you wouldn't believe me.
So I think I'll just answer
any further questions
with a genuinely
stunned silence.
[chuckles]
You know...Jacob...
...l'm getting closer to finding
this new Hector.
And when I do,
I'm gonna bring him down,
along with anyone
who's using him
as their own
mercenary for hire.
You have a nice day.
[gasps]
Shit!
-Travis!
-Aah! Oh!
Aah! Why would
you hit me?
[groans]
All right. Here.
Right here.
-Lay back.
-Yeah, yeah.
Oh, man.
That's one hell
of a right hook.
Yeah. Well, I'm also
a good shot.
So you're lucky
you just got the fist.
You shouldn't be punching
your baby's father, anyway.
Travis.
[sighs]
Look, there is
a good possibility
that you are not
the father, all right?
So...there's somebody else?
Yeah.
[sniffles]
Who?
Okay, I am not discussing
my sex life with you,
so if that's
why you came back --
No, that's --
that's not why I came over.
I-I came over 'cause
I wanted you to have this.
Here.
It's a coupon
for, uh, free babysitting.
Look, I-I know you don't want to
think about this right now,
so you can stick it in a drawer
or whatever,
but I want you
to have that.
You can cash it in
whenever you want to.
No limits,
no expiration date.
Whoever the father
happens to be.
Look, Vic, I grew up
raised by a single mom, okay?
And however
this plays out...
...at some point,
you're gonna need a friend.
Thank you, Travis.
Okay.
So, uh, what...
are the odds?
That you're the father?
Or not the father.
-Fifty-fifty.
-Oh.
So it's just one
other dude? Okay.
That's -- That's good.
Um, That's not bad.
I mean, so, um, is...
is he your type?
I don't have a type.
[chuckles]
Yeah, you do.
Manly, alpha male,
natural-born
law-enforcement type.
[cellphone rings]
[cellphone beeps]
Hey, Walt.
-|s it him?
-[whispering] Shush!
What?
No, nothing.
I'm fine.
Yeah.
The trial went fine.
Mm-hmm.
Thanks for checking.
Okay. Bye.
So, uh...is it him?
-You need to leave.
-Okay.
[sighs]
Why do you think this guy
will lead us to Malachi?
Because he is Malachi's
most loyal lieutenant.
If Malachi is alive,
Darius would be the first person
he would call.
Maybe.
In my experience,
loyalty among criminals
can shift in a hurry
if someone shows up
with more money.
You think Nighthorse paid him
to turn on Malachi?
I think I just saw a big thug
put a shovel in his car.
Let's see where he's going.
[engine starts, car beeping]
Hey,Dad.
Hey.
-Floor looks good.
-Yeah.
Except for the blood stain
under that rug.
Yeah.
What are you doing here?
I wanted to talk to you
about Nighthorse.
Has he been by lately?
Yeah.
He is my boss.
Yeah. I haven't
forgotten that.
Has he asked you to provide
any legal assistance
to, uh, someone
that's been operating
outside of reservation law?
What?
Like who?
Hector.
You know what Jacob
did ask me?
He came by with Henry
to ask me how I was doing
after shooting a man.
He also offered to pay
for extra employees
to help me manage
the workload here.
What a monster.
What about Henry?
He and Nighthorse
seem to be closer than ever.
Has Henry asked you
to do anything for Nighthorse?
Has he asked you
to help out Hector?
You know what?
Since I started
this legal-aid center,
Henry has asked for my help
exactly one time.
He wanted to foster
a Cheyenne child named Mingan
whose only parent
O.D.'d on heroin.
-Henry's fostering a child?
-No.
Because the boy ended up
killing himself.
When was this?
[clears throat]
The 13th.
Dad, Jacob and Henry
are good men.
They're not perfect,
but they care.
It's a daily battle
trying to fight the hopelessness
and powerlessness
that's taken over this place.
You have to think differently
here to make things work.
If you were here every day,
maybe you'd see that.
I see plenty.
I see Nighthorse
pretending to be a good man
and you and Henry both falling
for it regardless of what I say.
Are you still dating
that psychiatrist?
Because if you are,
maybe you could talk to her
about your irrational
Nighthorse obsession.
I love you, Dad,
and I always will.
But I...
I think maybe you've been doing
this job for too long.
You've developed these --
and you're not thinking
clearly anymore.
It might be time
to consider retiring.
Thank you for your counsel.
Hey, Dad, I'm totally over
shooting and killing that man,
so thanks for asking.
[Mathias] Put your hands up
where I can see them.
What's the charge --
digging without a license?
What's in the bag?
I don't know.
Henry!
Check that bag.
Who sent you out here, Darius?
Malachi?
You know where Malachi is?
Nighthorse send you
out here?
[sighs]
Mathias?
What's in there?
Enough money to kill for.
Oh, so that's the door you use
when you want to avoid people.
Oh, smart.
Morning, Dave.
I'm glad I insisted
that I wait for you in here,
although I think even you
would have had a hard time
avoiding this.
"Survivalist Leader Claims
Lovelorn Deputy
Does Sheriff's Bidding."
The more this
Chance Gilbert character
puts on his sex-drenched
conspiracy circus,
the more interested
the media gets.
Well, he's a deranged
psychopath.
He'll say anything
to try and get off.
Unfortunately,
everything he's saying
feeds into the
exact same narrative
Tucker Baggett is building
in your civil case,
that you're a rogue sheriff
who plays by his own rules
and runs his
department like a cult.
Tucker Baggett said that?
No. Chance Gilbert
said that.
He compared you to Jim Jones
and David Koresh.
I appreciate coolness
under pressure, Walt,
but I suggest you start
taking this seriously
and help me build a
decent defense on your behalf.
Fine.
lwill.
Let's get started.
Actually, uh, Dave,
I can't start now.
I've got a...
missing-persons case.
-How about tomorrow?
-Perfect.
Just like the old saying --
no better time than tomorrow.
And just
a parting thought --
if you don't stop doing
your job for a moment
to deal with this lawsuit,
you may find yourself
without a job to do.
[door closes]
[newspaper rustling]
[sighs]
Vic, Ferg?
What is it?
It's about Malachi.
I need you to pull files on
the recent drug-dealer attacks
linked to Hector on the res.
Okay.
So, uh, that'd
be Jamie DeBell,
when he was making
his res pizza delivery.
And who else?
Joey Takoda, the guy Henry found
outside the Red Pony.
Hector burned his heroin stash.
Okay. Anyone else?
Maybe. Let's just
start with those two.
Okay.
23rd.
When did, uh, Hector attack
Jamie and burn up his pot?
Um...the 18th.
18th.
What are you doing?
I'm thinking.
When did Hector burn
Joey Takoda's heroin stash?
Um...
15th.
The 15th.
So these incidents
are all connected to Hector.
Well, and heroin.
-No. Jamie only
deals pot.
-True.
Eddie Harp was recruiting him
to deal heroin.
And if Malachi is the one
who brought in Eddie
and the Irish Mob, then he's
tied to heroin as well.
So if Hector is waging
a one-man war on drugs, why now?
None of these things
were happening last month,
and then, suddenly...
a whole bunch of attacks
in a short period of time.
Yeah.
Something must have
triggered it.
Something right before the 15th.
We should check and see
what was happening on the res
during that time.
Maybe there was
a drug-related incident
that happened just before
Hector's first attack.
[sighs]
There was.
The suicide of this boy
on the 13th.
Okay, but does that relate
to the drugs
and all the other stuff?
His only parent O.D.'d
from heroin.
And you think Hector's
avenging his death?
I do.
You got any better idea who
Hector is and where to find him?
I might.
Okay.
I'm gonna ask you again --
Whose money is this?
I don't know.
Well, how'd you know
where to find it?
Just lucky, I guess.
This is a waste of time.
Darius, is Malachi alive
or dead?
Yes.
Okay. That's it.
If you're not talking,
I'm locking you up.
All right.
I'll talk.
To a lawye r.
[door opens]
[door closes]
I gather court didn't go as well
as you said it did.
No.
Why didn't you tell me?
Because I didn't want to
worry you.
But now it's --
it's all over the papers,
and they're making me
sound like --
Don't worry about it.
[sighs]
I can handle
a little bad press.
I'm more worried
about you.
He's not gonna
get off, is he?
I mean, the truth's got to count
for something, right?
It has to.
[telephone rings]
Cheyenne Legal Aid.
This is Cady.
Mm-hmm.
Yes. Yeah.
Of course.
Um, where are you
currently located?
Okay.
And what have they
charged you with?
[clears throat]
They haven't told you?
Good. That means they don't
have anything on you.
Please don't say another word
to them until I get there, okay?
I'm sorry.
I-I didn't get your name.
Can you -- Can you repeat it?
Darius Burns.
Got it.
Okay. Great.
I'll be right there.
Wait, I know what it feels like
to have a death weigh on you.
I think about Hector
every day.
[tires screech]
And so in a way, yes,
Hector lives as an idea
and a hope.
Is it also possible
that somebody's picking up
Hector's mantle?
Anything is possible.
[papers rustling]
Mathias tried to arrest Joey
for dealing,
but he could never hold him,
so he was frustrated.
Becoming Hector
would get him around all that.
Mathias is not the only one
who is frustrated
with the limit
of reservation law.
[Cady] Since I started
this legal-aid center,
Henry has asked for my help
exactly one time.
He wanted to foster
a Cheyenne child named Mingan.
-Henry's fostering a child?
-No.
Because the boy ended up
killing himself.
[dramatic music plays]
I'll take a Rainier.
Knocking off
a little early today?
Why don't you go ahead
and make it two?
[mid-tempo playing]
Something on your mind?
Cady thinks
I should retire.
Why does she think that?
Apparently, I've been doing
the job for so long
that, uh, it's affecting
my judgment.
Do you agree?
I don't know.
Maybe she's right.
Maybe I can't do the job
the way I used to,
the way I should.
Sometimes I find myself
staring right at the truth
without even seeing it...
...all because
I don't want to see it.
Human nature.
Sometimes...
it's not my fault.
Sometimes I can't see it
because someone else
is hiding it from me.
I feel like you are
now talking about
something very specific.
Uh-huh.
[can crinkling]
Take off your shirt.
What?
If you're who
I believe you are,
you have a bullet wound
somewhere on your body.
I do not think you need
another one of these.
I shot Hector
in the woods,
right near that bonfire
where Gab's rapists were.
We found blood on the ground,
so I knew I hit him.
What are you saying?
Can you look me in the eye
and tell me you're not Hector?
Let go of my arm.
Stop lying to me, Henry.
I'm sick of it.
All I ever do
is try and help people,
and all I ever get in return
is people lying to me
and hiding things.
Has it dawned on you
that sometimes people
do not tell you the truth
because they want to
protect you?
That's a bullshit excuse.
No, that is love.
But you choose to see
it as disloyalty.
Dishonesty is disloyalty.
And breaking the law when lam
the law is absolutely disloyal!
You cannot know what it takes
to fight back the violence
and drugs and
suicides on the res.
Suicides?
Like Mingan Pine's?
Yes, like Mingan.
Now let go of my arm!
I just want to
hear you say it!
Tell me.
Tell me you're Hector!
Why would I trust you
with something like that
when your own daughter
does not trust you enough
to call you after she
has been arrested?
[grunting]
I know it's you!
You are out of control!
[indistinct shouting]
[grunting]
[both grunting]